To run open defeat_the_evil_wizard.py in VS code and click Run Python File. Then follow the instructions in the prompt.

First I copied over the starter code that was given in the assignment. Then I created two new chracter classes (Archer and Paladin) that inherited from the Character class. I gave the the archer less health then the paladin and the warrior, because archers are considered to be less tanky. I gave each character special abilities befitting their classes. For example, I gave the archer a quick shot and evade abilities. The quick shot ability is enhanced to be a 2x damage attack while the evade ability will let the character dodge damage for a turn. I made a status effects list to store store things like if the characte will evade an attack. That way when the wizard goes to perform their attack, a status check can be done and the wizard's attack can be nullified by a block or a dodge. In theory that could be scalable to handle multiple statuses at once. Since every ckass has at least two special abilities, I made a function that each class inherits and is expected to implement called special_ability. This function checks the user's input and then determines which special attack will be used. I also make sure that character stores their special abilities in a list so that I can present them as options for the user to choose from. 

I added a function for healing. I gave the paladin class the highest healing power, because they are known for healing. The heal function makes sure to check if the character is at or will be healed over full health and makes sure that the character cannot be healed over max health. 

I modified the attack function to randomize the players damage. I grab 80% of the player's base damage and set it to the minimun and I grab 120% of the players damage and set it as the maximum. I then use the randint function and pass in the minimum and maximum as the range so that a player will randomly deal 80-120% of their base damage to the wizard with a regular attack.

The player is able to choose from actions such as attacking, healing, using abilities, or viewing stats. The evil wizard attacks the player and regenerates each turn. I added logic to make sure the wizard never heals past their max health. The wizard will not damage the player if they see that they are in a block or evade status and will make sure that status is removed at the end of the turn. The user will get a victory message if they defeat the wizard and a defeat message if the wizard wins.